# Alzheimers-ML-Project

Alzheimer disease is the one amongst neurodegenerative disorders. Though
the symptoms are benign initially, they become more severe over time.
Alzheimer&#39;s disease is a prevalent sort of dementia. This disease is challenging
one because there is no treatment for the disease. Diagnosis of the disease is
done but that too at the later stage only. The aim of this paper was to evaluate
the scientific literature on the use of various machine learning approaches for
the prediction of Alzheimer’s disease based solely on genetic data. To identify
gaps in the literature, critically appraise the reporting and methods of the
algorithms, and provide the foundation for a wider research programme
focused on developing novel machine learning based predictive algorithms in
Alzheimer’s disease .Also This study proposes a new method for the detection
of Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) using first-order statistical features in 3D brain
Magnetic Resonance (MR) images . After applying the inclusion/exclusion
criteria, 24 studies were included. Machine learning methods in the reviewed
papers performed in a wide range of ways (0.59 to 0.98 AUC). The main
findings showed that high risk of bias in the analysis can be linked to feature
selection, hyperparameter search and validation methods. Feature extraction
is applied on top of these slices to calculate the first-order statistical features
and the prominent feature vectors generated by PCA are selected for further
study. In the classification phase, different classifiers take the selected features
as its input to predict the classes AD (Alzheimer’s Disease) or HC (Healthy
Control) based on the observations in the validation set. Experimental results
show that the accuracy of 90.9 % compared to other techniques.
